Greetings to all fellow practitioners in Vietnam. This young person is
asking for an answer to a question
regarding
whether the Buddha left any will for young
people. The question is: "
Hello, teacher. When the Buddha entered
Nirvana, did he leave a will for
young people? If so, what was that will written?"
And respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, the
Buddha was the one who
attained liberation, and every word
he spoke taught sentient beings to
understand the karmic consequences of their actions,
speech, and mind, and guided them
on the path to liberation,
instructing them to practice the methods of
liberation to achieve liberation and end the cycle of
suffering. When Ananda
explained, the Buddha said: "You should
know that the precepts are your teacher, just
as I am still alive and not
in this world."
Because we think that
after the Buddha's passing, we don't know where to rely on, we
don't know how to practice.
Perhaps the Buddha did teach this, but there is
another saying...  The Buddha taught that
after his passing, he said, "
After I pass away, you
should rely on yourselves and take the
precepts as your teacher." This is what he taught the
monks. But today
you're saying that you should teach the young people,
so how should you teach them? I'll
choose the Buddha's saying, "You should
know that the precepts are your teacher, just
like I am while I'm still alive."
This saying of the Buddha
shows us that we can
consider the Buddha as not yet having passed away, and since he has
n't passed away, there are no
final instructions from him.
You mean that if we follow the precepts
while we are still alive,
then we should just take the precepts and
practice them. That's how we
pay homage to him. Whenever our minds
connect with the precepts, we are
connecting with the Buddha. So,
young people can rest assured. The
meaning is, go and learn about the
precepts, contemplate the precepts. When we contemplate the
precepts, we are directing our minds
towards the Buddha.  Then, thinking about and
practicing the precepts is like paying
homage to the Buddha, and
Brother Thọ receiving his teachings, understanding them, and
practicing them, and
we attain liberation. So,
Buddhists like us, and
young people, we should always remember
that the Buddha has passed away. Although we clearly know that
his physical body is
no longer here, we know
that as long as the precepts remain, the precepts are still there. The
precepts are like a child's relationship with their mother, or like a father's relationship with his parents.
Even though our parents are no longer here to
see us, when we remember
those words, we immediately remember
our parents, and when we practice
those words, it's as if we've just been instructed by
our parents. It's like when
parents get old, they just
say, "I
don't need anything else. Just know that you
siblings love, support, and
help each other, and that makes your parents happy." Or, as parents
teach...  The older brother should teach his younger sibling to
become a better person, someone who helps and educates them to become a
better person. If you like, then just do it that way. Just keep teaching
your younger sibling, don't let them misbehave. If you need to discipline, discipline; if you need to punish,
then punish; if you don't, then
don't say anything to them,
so that they can be good. This is what I like about
remembering and practicing it. It's like
being with your parents,
receiving their words of advice. So
rest assured that if you know about Buddhism,
you will receive the teachings of the
Buddha, and that is the precepts. Practicing the precepts is practicing the
Buddha's teachings for yourself and
for all levels of society, not just for
young people of all ages. The
Buddha's precepts have a limited scope.
Through this question, we
see that
throughout our practice,
we are always connected to the precepts. There is no
practice of a Buddhist follower that is not
connected to the precepts. The precepts are a
decision; the scope of thought, the scope of
speech, the scope of
action—that scope will lead to...  This gives
us results so that we can have happiness.
For example, imagine we have a
piece of land; this land
belongs to us, the land is very
good, we sow seeds there and we
will get the fruits we
desire. Similarly, if we humans
want happiness and
peace, we should sow words of virtue in the field of
precepts, sow thoughts in the field of precepts, sow
actions in the
field of precepts. And from that field of precepts,
from those thoughts, words, and actions,
we will get very good results. It is
precisely those Buddhists and
those with wisdom who know how to
practice precepts and who always pay
homage to the Buddha. Those who practice the
Buddha's teachings will meet the Buddha
in the Pure Land. 12. Wishing you young people
diligence and wishing our fellow practitioners
to cherish the precepts through the practice of
precepts. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni Tathagata
[music]
ah yes yes